Nepra grants license to Fatima Transmission Company, the first ever private sector company, to invest in power transmission lines_

Fatima Transmission Company (a Fatima Group company) becomes the first private sector company to get a license from NEPRA to lay down power transmission lines. Under the license, the Company will construct and own transmission lines. The initial plans are to lay 37 km transmission lines to supply 120 MW to bulk consumers.

This initiative will encourage many other private sector companies to invest in this area, thus leading to gradual development of an efficient transmission and distribution system.

Our values define who we are - Fatima Group runs its business on well-defined goals and objectives based on its Vision and Mission statements.

Vision:
To be a dynamic business group, building robust businesses that excel at serving their customers and stakeholders through exceptional products and services in industries and markets that support progression and economic growth at community, society and country level.

Mission:
To create continuous value for our customers and consumers, inspiring confidence and respect through the highest levels of product quality and service.

To provide employees a work environment that's enabling and inclusive and where innovation and entrepreneurship are a way of life and where people work in an ethical and safe business, based on the principals merit and equal opportunity.

To be a responsible corporate citizen, complying with all aspects of Corporate Governance and the full spectrum of Corporate Social Responsibility.

The fertilizer complex is a fully integrated facility, capable of producing intermediate and final products.

The Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited was incorporated on December 24, 2003, as a joint venture between two major business groups in Pakistan namely, Fatima Group and Arif Habib Group.

The fertilizer complex is a fully integrated production facility, capable of producing two intermediate products, i.e., Ammonia and Nitric Acid and four final products which are Urea, Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN), Nitro Phosphate (NP) and Nitrogen Phosphorous Potassium (NPK) at Sadiqabad, Rahim Yar Khan.

The Complex has a 56MW captive power plant in addition to off-sites and utilities. The Complex has been allocated 110 MMCFD of gas from the dedicated Mari Gas fields.

Foundation stone was laid on April 26, 2006 by the then Prime Minister of Pakistan. The construction of the Complex commenced in March 2007 and is housed on 950 acres of land. The Complex, when completed, is designed to produce:

500,000 Metric Tons of Urea per Annum
420,000 Metric Tons of Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN) per Annum
360,000 Metric Tons of Nitro Phosphate (NP) per Annum
The Complex, during its construction phase engaged over 4,000 engineers and technicians from Pakistan, China, USA, Japan and Europe.

The Complex provides modern housing for its employees with all necessary facilities. This includes a school for children of employees and the local community, a medical centre and sports facilities.

The Company is listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange, through a successful initial public offering (IPO) in February 2010. 200 million ordinary shares were offered to the public bringing the issued Share Capital from 1,800 million to 2,000 million shares.

Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited has a bright future and the company looks forward to growth in volume and return for its investors.

On behalf of the Board of Directors of Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited, I welcome you to the Company’s website.

2018 has been another year of satisfaction for the Board and the Company’s management. The Company improved upon all previous benchmarks be it in terms of production volumes, sales revenues or bottom-line results. We strengthened our growth trajectory and continued to see results from our marketing campaign positioning Sarsabz as the reliable yield enhancement partner for progressive farmers across the country. Revenue increased by 22% over last year while profitability increased by 25%, which confirms our confidence in the Company’s future.

The Manufacturing operations are to be congratulated for their continued efficiency and productivity improvement efforts confirming that our traditional focus on high HSE and manufacturing standards translates into profitability.

Your Company is fully aware of the challenges ahead in the shape of inflationary pressures, increasing mark-up rates, discontinuation of subsidy and significant depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. While meeting these challenges, our Company is well positioned for continued prosperity and growth and expect 2019 to bring improved benefits for all stakeholders.

Market Overview
Market dynamics for the agriculture sector remained positive during the year with firm product prices, and steady fertilizer application. However, massive challenges in the shape of high inflation, increasing markup rates, discontinuation of subsidy and significant depreciation of Pak Rupee took their toll.

Total offtake and production of Urea remained at par with last year, at 5.8 million MT and 5.7 million MT respectively. Continuous shutdown of fertilizer plants operating on SNGPL network due to non-availability of natural gas at viable rates, resulted in a widening of the demand and supply gap for Urea in the country. Being cognizant of this immediate supply gap, the Government imported 105K MT Urea. The long-term solution came in the shape of the supply of blended gas/RLNG at a considerably higher price than indigenous gas to the closed Urea plants only.

Total offtake of CAN and NP dropped 17% and 37% respectively to 608K MT and 391K MT from 731K MT and 622K MT in 2017. The decline is attributable to short supply resulting from closure of the production plant operating on the SNGPL network.

In the Phosphate market, DAP offtake dropped by 6% from 2.38 million MT in 2017 to 2.23 million MT in 2018 due to the consistent price hike in the international market and impacts of the Pak Rupee devaluation.

Company Performance
Our financial disciplines and firm asset base are the foundation of our strong financial performance. Your Company continued to show improved results on the back of strong market demand and firm product prices.

Production remained strong and stable throughout the year as throughput of all plants exceeded their nameplate capacities. Sales also remained almost equivalent to last year.

Acknowledgement
The Board places on record its gratitude for the hard work and dedication of every employee of the Company. The Board also appreciates and acknowledges the assistance, guidance and cooperation of all stakeholders including the Government of Pakistan, financial institutions, commercial banks, business associates, customers and all others whose efforts and contributions strengthened the Company.

Policy Statement of Ethics and Business Practices
Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited conducts its business with the highest ethical standards in full compliance with all applicable laws.

Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited conducts its business with the highest ethical standards in full compliance with all applicable laws. Honesty and integrity take precedence in all relationships including those with customers, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders.

Ethics and Business Practices
We believe in conducting the company's business in a manner that respects, protects and improves the environment and provides employees with a safe and healthy workplace. We conduct our business in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Employees must be completely familiar with the permits, Health Safety and Environment policy, local laws and regulations that apply to their work.

All employees are expected to understand the laws and business regulations related to their work and comply fully so that our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, stakeholders and the Government have complete faith in the way we operate and that our business decisions are made ethically and in the best interests of the Company.

Employees are obligated to act in accordance with the company's code of Ethics and Business Conduct and are restricted to using only legitimate practices in commercial operations and in promoting the Company's position on issues before governmental authorities. Inducements intended to reward favorable decisions and governmental actions are unacceptable and prohibited.

Employees are prohibited from using their positions, company property or information for personal gain, and from competing with the Company. Employees are also prohibited from taking advantage from opportunities that become available through the use of Company information, property or their position.

Assets and Proprietary information
We consider our company's assets, both physical and intellectual, very valuable. We have, therefore an obligation to protect these assets in the interest of the Company and its shareholders.

Protection of the Company's information is important for our business. All employees are expected to know what information is proprietary and which must not be disclosed to unauthorized sources. Employees are responsible for applying all available tools to manage the Company's information resources and records.

Relations with Business partners
We seek to do business with suppliers, vendors, contractors and other independent businesses who demonstrate high standards of ethical business behavior. Our company will not knowingly do business with any persons or businesses that operate in violation of applicable laws and regulations, including employment, health, safety and environmental laws. We shall take steps to assure that our suppliers, vendors and contractors understand the standards we apply to ourselves, and expect the same from them.

Our Employees
We believe that highly engaged employees are the key ingredient in professional development and business success. Therefore, we invite our employees to contribute their best and to avail the opportunities for improvement and growth. We are an equal opportunity employer and promote gender diversity, self-development and innovation. We provide employees with tools, techniques, and training to master their current jobs, broaden their skills, and advance their career goals.

Values & Behaviours
These values are a part of our business's DNA.

These are the values that Fatima Fertilizer Company Limited epitomize, and are reflected in all our transactions and interactions. Congruence to these values has been a part of our business strategy. They are bound in the very fabric of our organization, shaping and shaped by organizational processes, procedures and practices.

Integrity
Behaviors for “Integrity”:

We are sincere, truthful and trustworthy in all our transactions and interactions and will honor commitments.
We respect the dignity and rights of individuals and groups assuring that our judgments are free from discrimination and biases.
We create an environment of fairness and transparency and abide by all applicable laws in letter and spirit.
Innovation
Behaviors for “Innovation”:

We encourage knowledge building and information sharing by creating an environment in which innovative ideas are nurtured and developed.
We maintain an environment of openness towards new ideas that challenges the status quo while eliminating the fear of failure.
Teamwork
Behaviors for “Teamwork”:

We consciously encourage “We” culture & discourage “I/Me” culture as we believe that teams can achieve more than what individuals can do.
We take pride in the accomplishment of the teams while respecting differences in opinions and value diverse talents.
We believe in working together for the achievement of common objectives by empowering employees collectively while retaining their individuality.
Our team agenda takes precedence over personal goals as we take pride in team accomplishments and accept joint responsibility for any possible shortcomings.
Safety, Health, Environment and CSR
Behaviors for “Safety, Health, Environment & CSR”:

We are committed to building a safe and healthy workforce that contributes towards the business growth and sustainability.
We take a proactive approach towards health, safety and environment management in order to achieve zero harm.
We support communities and main a special focus on protecting environment across all our business operations.
Customer Focus
Behaviors for “Customer Focus”:

We are committed to exceeding our customers’ expectations by actively engaging with them and ensuring prompt actions for continuous improvement in our products and services.
We conform to customer needs in everything we do by adopting a proactive approach – we go to customer’s door step and do not wait for the customer to come to us.
Excellence
Behaviors for “Excellence”:

We endeavor to exceed expectations in everything we do.
Our pursuit of business excellence is characterized by the formulation and implementation of world class processes and effective use of technologies.
We continuously develop and improve skills and competencies of people and ways of working to achieve outstanding results and benchmark our performance with “best in-class”.
We make optimal use of all resources for sustainable business growth.
Valuing People

We value our people as our greatest resource

Behaviors for “Valuing People”:

With mutual respect at all levels, we develop sense of ownership by involving people in decision making.
We treat all people equally with respect, dignity and without any discrimination.
We provide an exciting and enjoyable environment, ensuring work-life balance, creating opportunities for growth and development and supporting gender diversity.
We are working diligently in a diverse culture while respecting and valuing people for their individuality.
We ensure providing a career path for each individual.
We believe in nurturing and helping people unleash their talent whilst rewarding their contributions through a high performance culture.
Our environment will always be favorable for attracting and retaining the best talent through a transparent, merit based system.
We value our people as our greatest resource