London-based studio Industrial Facility was co-founded in 2002 by designers Sam Hecht and Kim Colin. Their approach reflects both a thoughtful consideration of form and a unique understanding of contemporary life, creating beauty out of utility in the products, furniture and exhibitions they design. Hecht, from London, trained as an industrial designer, while Colin, from Los Angeles, trained as an architect; together they have helped clients to produce projects that display an understanding of cultural relevance and commercial success.
London-based studio Industrial Facility was co-founded in 2002 by designers Sam Hecht and Kim Colin. Their approach reflects both a thoughtful consideration of form and a unique understanding of contemporary life, creating beauty out of utility in the products, furniture and exhibitions they design. Hecht, from London, trained as an industrial designer, while Colin, from Los Angeles, trained as an architect; together they have helped clients to produce projects that display an understanding of cultural relevance and commercial success.

 

Hecht and Colin’s desire is to work for industry in a way that improves the things we live with. Not setting out to produce something different but rather something better, they aim to design things that will last, be effective and give satisfaction often beyond what is called for by the product and the client. Industrial Facility is considered as one of the most progressive studios in product, furniture and exhibition design. With a roster of pioneering clients, including Muji, Herman Miller, Emeco, Mattiazzi, Epson and Wästberg, they are regarded for both their philosophical and pragmatic approach.

 

In 2016, they created a new department called Future Facility to deal expressley with the design of products connected to the internet (IoT).

        
          

Both Hecht and Colin are Royal Designers for Industry and Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts. Works are held in permanent collections worldwide, including the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum and the Museum of Modern Art in New York; San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; Art Institute of Chicago; Centre Pompidou, Paris; Victoria and Albert Museum and the Design Museum, both in London; and the Helsinki Design Museum.

Sam Hecht and Kim Colin (partners in life and design) create “objects of everyday life with uncommon beauty and grace”, writes Alain de Botton in the foreword to an upcoming book on Industrial Facility, the design office the pair formed in 2002. Industrial Facility, he continues, “pare back, underplay, and yet seduce, enliven and over deliver. Everything they have designed has reduced matters to essentials and yet managed to find a way to delight as well.”

Sam and Kim formed Industrial Facility after previously collaborating on a number of projects. Prior to this, they had well established careers in different, but complementary fields. Kim, a Californian, trained first as an architect before spending a period of time commissioning books for Phaidon (and editing the first monographs on Pierre Koenig and Jon Jerde). She taught architectural design at the Royal College of Art and the Architectural Association in London and was also a design advisor for Herman Miller. Sam studied industrial design at Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design and received his degree in industrial design from the Royal College of Art in London. After working for architect David Chipperfield, he travelled in the US and Japan before becoming head of design at IDEO.

The work of Industrial Facility includes digital pianos for Yamaha, furniture for Herman Miller, store environments for Issey Miyake, lighting for Established & Sons, coffee makers for Muji (for whom they are a retained designer), and many things in between. In their work, concludes de Botton, they are like “the ideal parents: they make the world friendlier and more hopeful for us, while hiding the sacrifices that they have had to make in order to do so”.

In 2016, Sam and Kim launched Future Facility to investigate the potential of networked products.