Skip to content
Making your products more Reliable, Safe and Secure
LinkedInTwitterYouTubeEmail
T&VS Logo
SOLUTIONS
TOOLS
INDUSTRIES
NEWS & EVENTS
ABOUT
Why Choose T&VS
Customers choose T&VS because of a demonstrated ability to exhibit thought leadership in the verification space. T&VS has a proven track record of delivering to clients for complex verification programs, active industry engagement through conferences and seminars and providing industry-leading verification training programs.

Well-defined Processes
T&VS brings improvements to customer verification through a thorough verification process built on experience from the past 25 years. Customers have the flexibility to use the T&VS verification flow (which has been successfully proven at multiple customer locations) or to ask T&VS to follow their own process.

Domain Expertise
Focus in a niche area of expertise gives customers the confidence to outsource the complete verification activity to T&VS. A successful track record of delivering end-to-end verification programs for ASIC/SoC/FPGA has made T&VS a preferred verification partner.

Quick Ramp-up
Customers have benefited from T&VS’ ability to quickly ramp up to meet resource requirements, for example

ST – 10 resources within three weeks
Infineon – 7 resources in three weeks
NXP – 10 resources within a month
LGE – 5 resources within three weeks
Retention
Customer confidence in T&VS’ ability to build and retain stable, high performing verification teams has led to T&VS high client retention rates.

Infineon – 5 years
Nvidia – 4 years
NXP – 2 years
Verification IP
T&VS provides custom-made VIP’s in native System Verilog/UVM or e/eRM with the ability to interface with customer models in a very flexible manner. Benefits to customer are:

Access to proven VIP
Open source allows easier debug
Flexible licensing model provides clients with a very good cost advantage
Tool Support
Customers can reduce their verification turnaround times by leveraging T&VS’ in-house tools which are specifically developed to address verification pain points.

asureSign – Verification signoff and management tool
Run Manager – Test case management and report generation
Register Modelling – Managing register specification information across various design phases (IP, Sub-system, SoC and Post-Silicon)
Proven Track Record
Customers choose to work with T&VS because of a successful track record of verification execution at semiconductor majors such as Infineon, NXP, STMicro, Ericsson, Nvidia etc.  Read our Customer Case Studies and Customer Quotes.

Training
Customer training requirements in any verification area can be addressed via customized training programs provided through Doulos, T&VS’ exclusive training partner in India. T&VS’ customers have benefited from these programs which are conducted by highly experienced SV/UVM and SystemC TLM experts from Europe.

Flexible Engagement Models
Customers have the flexibility to choose from a variety of engagement models

Fixed price vs. T&M
Resource augmentation vs. managed services
Onsite or offshore vs. blended models
 

ABOUT T&VS
Organisations developing complex systems use T&VS to test and verify their hardware and software products to make sure they are reliable, safe and secure.

QUICK LINKS
Newsletter Signup
Career Opportunities
DVClub Europe & India
Verification Futures 2018
Verification IP
CONTACT US
By email
Local Offices
Twitter | @testandverif
LinkedIn
home-tvs-web-logo-default-v3-opt
Copyright 2008 - 2020 T&VS Limited | All Rights Reserved | LEGAL and PRIVACY
LinkedInTwitterYouTubeEmail
Go to Top
