Skip to main content
Uber

Sign up

About us
We ignite opportunity by setting the world in motion
Good things happen when people can move, whether across town or toward their dreams. Opportunities appear, open up, become reality. What started as a way to tap a button to get a ride has led to billions of moments of human connection as people around the world go all kinds of places in all kinds of ways with the help of our technology.

A letter from our CEO
Read about our team’s commitment to provide everyone on our global platform with the technology that can help them move ahead.

Read Dara's letter
Sustainability
Uber is committing to becoming a fully electric, zero-emission platform by 2040, with 100% of rides taking place in zero-emission vehicles, on public transit, or with micromobility. It is our responsibility as the largest mobility platform in the world to more aggressively tackle the challenge of climate change. We will do this by offering riders more ways to ride green, helping drivers go electric, making transparency a priority and partnering with NGOs and the private sector to help expedite a clean and just energy transition.

Learn more
Sustainability
Rides and beyond
In addition to giving riders a way to get from point A to point B, we're working to bring the future closer with self-driving technology and urban air transport, helping people order food quickly and affordably, removing barriers to healthcare, creating new freight-booking solutions, and helping companies provide a seamless employee travel experience.

How to use the Uber app
Our offerings
cars
Your safety drives us
Whether you’re in the back seat or behind the wheel, your safety is essential. We are committed to doing our part, and technology is at the heart of our approach. We partner with safety advocates and develop new technologies and systems to help improve safety and help make it easier for everyone to get around.

Learn more
safety shield
Company info
Dara giving a talk
Who's driving Uber
We’re building a culture within Uber that emphasizes doing the right thing, period, for riders, drivers, and employees. Find out more about the team that’s leading the way.

Learn more
Getting diversity right
Getting diversity right
It’s our goal to create a workplace that is inclusive and reflects the diversity of the cities we serve—where everyone can be their authentic self, and where that authenticity is celebrated as a strength. By creating an environment where people from every background can thrive, we’ll make Uber a better company—for our employees and our customers.

Learn more
Keep up with the latest
Newsroom
Get announcements about partnerships, app updates, initiatives, and more near you and around the world.

Learn more
Blog
Find new places to explore and learn about Uber products, partnerships, and more.

Learn more
Investor relations
Download financial reports, see next-quarter plans, and read about our corporate responsibility initiatives.

Learn more
You've got drive. We've got jobs.
Search open roles
Uber
Visit Help Center

Company
About us

Our offerings

Newsroom

Investors

Blog

Careers

AI

Gift cards

Products
Ride

Drive

Eat

Uber for Business

Uber Freight

Global citizenship
Safety

Diversity and Inclusion


English

Kyoto
Download the Uber app for Android
Download the Uber app for IOS
© 2021 Uber Technologies Inc.

Privacy

Accessibility

Terms