construction companies in pakistan
Construction of a real estate asset needs to be top-notch and without any defects. For that, it is crucial to hire a company that provides high-quality construction services at an affordable price.

In this article, we bring you a list of construction companies in Pakistan that are providing a range of construction services to the masses.

Let’s get started.

List of Construction Companies in Pakistan	Location	Contact
1. Imarat Group of Companies	Beverly Centre, F 6/1 Blue Area, Islamabad.	0343-2555555
2. Hardbone International PVT Limited	Office No. 09, 2nd floor, Mujahid Plaza, Jinnah Avenue,Blue Area Islamabad, Jinnah Ave, G 7/2.	(051) 2803177
3. Sardar Group of Companies	F 8/4 F-8, Islamabad Capital Territory	(051) 2654429
4. Jaffer Group 	26-D, Kashmir Plaza, 3rd Floor, Block B,, Jinnah Ave, G 6/3 Blue Area, Islamabad.	(051) 2276770
5. Habib Construction Services 	Plot No. 299, Street 3, I-9/3, Sector I-9, Islamabad.	92-423-5291006-9
6. Living Standards Construction and Renovation Company	Beverly Centre, F 6/1 Blue Area, Islamabad.	0332 9459469
7. ZKB Engineers and Constructors 	I 9/2 I-9, Islamabad.	0334 5714315
construction basement
1. Imarat Group of Companies
The first company on our list is the ‘Imarat Group of Companies’. Being one of the best construction companies in Pakistan, the Imarat group of companies has continued in delivering real estate excellence for more than 15 years. 

Recently, the Imarat Group of Companies and Graana.com have received an ICCI Achievement Award, on 3rd September 2020, at the 3rd ICCI Achievement Awards 2020 in the ‘Leading Construction & Real Estate Group’ category at a ceremony held here at Serena Hotel, Islamabad.

It is a UK based real estate group, a private property development company, with subsidiary companies operating in the UK and Pakistan. Since 2015, the brand has initiated 6 real estate projects: 3 Malls, 2 Hotels, and 1 Luxury Apartment Complex in prime locations within Islamabad and Rawalpindi.

Some of the hot-selling projects of the company include:

Amazon Outlet Mall.
Imarat Builders Mall.
Mall of Arabia.
Florence Galleria.
Golf Floras.
construction companies in pakistan

The company deals in a wide variety of residential and commercial property portfolio. If you are a real estate investor who is looking to invest in the hottest selling projects in the twin cities, we suggest you visit the Imarat Group of Companies. 

2. Hardbone International PVT Limited
Hardbone International Pvt. Ltd.is one of the best construction companies in Pakistan. With ISO 14001:2009, 9001:2015, and OHSAS 18001:2007 Certification, this construction company is known for delivering top-notch construction projects both in the private and public sectors. 

Some of the services offered by the company include:

Architectural.
Civil Construction.
Renovation.
Mechanical.
Electrical.
HVAC System.
Solar System (Alternate Energy).
Fire Safety System.
Security System & Equipment.
Integrated Technical Service.
Agricultural Development.
Having said that, Hardbone International Pvt. Ltd also uses the latest science and technology to ensure quality, precision, accuracy, and high efficiency. 

Their team of highly qualified professionals is trained in:

Land Development.
Premium Homes.
Farm Houses.
Multi-Story Buildings.
Roads.
Drainage System.
Mini Dams.
Cattle Farms.
Fish Ponds.
Repainting
Refacing
Retrofitting
Installing New Light Fixtures
Adding New Hardware
Replacing Outdated Systems
Barrier System
Under Vehicle Control & Monitoring System
Secure Parking System
Turnstile Entry System
3. Sardar Group of Companies
The next construction company on our list is the Sardar Group of Companies. It is one of the most renowned construction companies in Pakistan, designing and constructing luxury living markets in Pakistan. One of the most famous real estate projects of Sardar Group of Companies is the Centaurus mall, Islamabad, the luxury shopping mall situated at the heart of Islamabad. 

Other prominent projects of the company include:

PakGulf Pvt. Ltd.
Taj Residencia.
Centaurus apartments.
Movenpick.
construction companies

4. Jaffer Group of Companies
Jaffer Group of Companies is a conglomerate, having multiple businesses across the country including agriculture, technology, fertilizers, construction, etc. 

Jaffer Group established Murshid Builders (Private) Limited, a construction firm, in 1984. Since then, the company has completed several projects and collaborated with leading overseas companies. 

Apart from operating as the main contractor, the company has also worked as a subcontractor with international names such as Northrop Grumman, Encorp (USA), Tobishima, Shimizu, and Taisei Corporation (Japan).

Some of the famous projects taken and completed by the company include:

The campus of the Agriculture University Peshawar.
Housing Complex, Haripur.
Honda Car Factory, Lahore.
Construction Machinery Training Institute.
The Educational TV Station.
Khanpur Dam Water Reservoirs, Islamabad.
Weather Forecast Radar Stations, Rahim Yar Khan.
Kohat Tunnel and Access Roads temporary facilities and Box Culverts, Kohat.
Gravity Water Supply System, Abbottabad.
Government College of Technology, Lahore.
Children’s Hospital, Karachi.
5. Habib Construction Services
One of the famous construction service providing companies in Pakistan is Habib Construction Services. It is famous for delivering large and complex infrastructure projects. 

With a diverse portfolio, the company specializes in highways, motorways, flyover & bridges, buildings, power & energy, airports, dams, etc. 

Some of the notable clients of the company include Bahria Town, National Highway Authority, etc.

construction companies

6. Living Standards Construction and Renovation Company
The next company on our list is ‘Living Standards Construction and Renovation Company.’ The idea behind LIVING STANDARDS is to provide a one-stop solution to the masses. They specialize in construction, renovation, maintenance, etc. problems. The company has a seasoned and professional team of engineers, architects, interior designers, and experienced technical staff always ready to meet the construction needs of their clients. 

Some of the services offered by the company include 

Design and Building
Turn-Key Solutions
Residential Construction
Commercial Construction
Industrial Construction
Structural Analysis
Labor Rate Construction
House Remodeling
Office Renovation
Restaurant Renovation
Commercial Renovation
External Landscaping
Paint and Polish
General Maintenance
Plumbing Services
Electric Services
Repaint and Polish
Carpentry
Electronics
A/C services
Cleaning/Janitorial Services
Swimming Pools. One of the best ways to kill the warm weather is by taking a dip in a swimming pool.
7. ZKB Engineers and Constructors
Last but not least comes ZKB. It is one of the top construction companies in Pakistan. It is an eminent infrastructure company established four decades ago. During the early years, the company operated in the Balochistan region only but currently, the company is operating all around the country. 

The services offered by the company include:

ENGINEERING:

ZKB is a company of engineers and constructors. The creative team not only serves a functional purpose but is also a pro at adding aesthetically pleasing looks to your house simply and elegantly. 

CONSTRUCTION

With over forty years of experience covering a wide range of projects from Dams to Roads from Bridges to Buildings, the company has done it all. Recognized by several International and National institutions ZKB stands alone as the leader in the field of construction in all of Pakistan.

CONSULTING

The consultation services are designed to help you through every step of the way. From planning to procurement and implementation the company has you covered. They will help you focus on key issues early on and manage the progress at each step so you can save time and money. 

Construction

Real estate investment is one of the most profitable and lucrative investment opportunities in Pakistan. Nevertheless, an important pointer that must be kept in mind before making a Real estate investment is that it is not a haphazard thing – it is a science. There are certain factors that affect the real estate market and these factors either make or break the real estate market. To know more about real estate factors top investment opportunities read best real estate YouTube channels to better understand about real estate market. Get to know best insurance company in Pakistan.

So, these are some of the most famous and well-known construction companies in Pakistan. Go through the list and let us know what you think about them. Get to know online vehicle registration in Pakistan

Did not find the relevant options on our list? Let us know in the comment section below and we will review the construction company for you. Get to know construction cost of basement in Pakistan.

Happy construction!

Read More:
Building vs Buying a House – Pros/Cons & Which one is a better option?
The 7 Best Restaurants in Karachi
Industries That Went Up During COVID-19 Crisis


