You can’t have a business without a business name!

But the process of choosing the perfect business name that is both catchy and communicates what your business is about is by no means easy. Businesses have failed in the past largely due to a name that just didn’t work, so it’s important to get this right.

Choosing a good business name is very important if it’s going to be successful and it’s key to differentiating you from your competitors. Customers associate a business name with the value it provides to them.

Legal considerations
Before starting your quest for picking up the perfect business name, you should have a clear idea of what type of business structure you are going to have. This is important because rules regarding name registration vary depending on the structure of your business.

If your business is a company, you need to register the business name at the time of registering your company.
If you are a sole trader or have a partnership, you need to register your business name with the ASIC, unless your business is named after you or your partner.
Another obvious thing to do while naming your business is to check if the name is already in use.

Technically speaking, unless a business name in Australia is registered as a trademark, it can be used by multiple entities. However, considering the brand value your business name carries, it should be unique and easily distinguishable from others.

How do you find out if a business name is already taken?

You can check for availability of business names from the ASIC website. Registration and subsequent renewal take only $34 per year. You can update or transfer your business name for free. If you are thinking about registering your business name as a trademark too, check IP Australia to find out the already registered trademarks.

Related article: How to Get Ecommerce Grants for Small Businesses in Victoria during COVID-19

How to choose a name for your business
As discussed, the main purpose of a name should be to communicate what services you offer while being easy to remember and unique, if possible. Here are a few useful tips to keep in mind:

1. Be descriptive but not too general or vague
Don’t choose a name that is too vague or too meaningful. Generic names, like – Melbourne Painting Service, is not only boring but also not easy to remember. Moreover, it doesn’t stand out from other providers. Now consider the name PhotoBucket – descriptive enough, not boring, and not something you’re likely to forget.

2. Use related words in a creative way
Don’t be tempted to stuff keywords into your business name. Using plain keywords like General Motors doesn’t work anymore. But often, choosing a somewhat modified version of related keywords works very well, provided it expresses what your business is about.

A good way to create catchy, memorable business names is to use alternate versions of common words related to the service you’re offering. For example, the name Attensa is quite perfect for the content aggregation tool.

The name is a play on the word attention – which is somewhat relatable to the service itself. Other examples include Digg (dig), Flickr (flicker) and Compaq (compact).

3. Keep it simple
Don’t choose a name that is too long or complicated. Remember that your business name needs to be appealing to your customers. It should sound pleasant, familiar and conjure up positive emotions. It also needs to be easy to pronounce and remember.

Consider the name Zippil – it’s not only hard to pronounce, but it’s downright obscure. Whenever you need to explain your business name, it’s probably not a good sign. It’s okay to be a bit clever, but don’t overdo yourself.

4. Don’t copy your competitors
Avoid choosing a name too similar to other businesses in your industry. It can mean appearing to be unoriginal, which is not good for your brand image. It can also mean potential customers confuse your business with your competition making it more difficult to get repeat work.

5. Avoid using your own name
Unless you are an established brand, avoid using your own name. Your name doesn’t communicate anything about your business and won’t mean much to potential customers. This may even cause problems if you ever want to sell your business in future or even if you wish to expand.

There are some rare examples however where integrating the owner’s name within the brand name can work well. Examples are – Automattic (named after its founder Matt) and PageRank (named after Google co-founder Larry Page). That said, PageRank is not a business name per se, it’s an algorithm.

6. Choose a name that’s scalable
Pick a name that can expand your business. If you sell just books, you might one day sell stationery products or accessories too. If your service is based on a certain area, you might extend to other cities. So, select a broad name that can encompass your future growth.

7. Make sure you have a related domain
Once you’ve narrowed down your name options, you have to make sure the name you want to use is available. Check if the name is already registered as a trademark or acquired by another business. If you’re planning on having an online presence, which you definitely should, you’ll want to make sure the desired domain is available by doing a domain name check.

A domain name can impact your online visibility and influences your marketing efforts as well. That said, you shouldn’t necessarily abandon a good business name just because an exact domain is not available. Here are a couple of things that you can do instead-

If it’s a parked domain, consider buying it. It’s probably going to cost you, but a search-friendly, memorable domain is worth it.
Add modifiers to the name. Say your company name is Sleepytime and you sell pyjamas, but sleeptime.com is already taken. Then you can look for domain names like sleeptimeonline.com or sleeptimepyjamas.com.
Be creative with domain selection. Nowadays, businesses use different top-level domains to make their URLs more memorable.  For example, the blogging platform Postachio chose postach.io as their domain. They chose a ccTLD (.io) which is naturally a part of their business name. Another well-known example is del.icio.us
Final advice
Choosing a name can be challenging when you’re setting out to start a business, but not something to agonise over! Remember to get opinions and ideas from friends, family or even potential customers. It’s always a good idea to get a few different points of view.

A business name is only your first step towards building a brand. Though it’ll give your business a good first impression, it’s up to you to meet the customer expectations and bring your business to success.

Step 1: Find The Best Brand Name For Your Business
First, we will start with the creative work of naming your business. Then, it’s time to consider your branding strategy. After that, you'll want to understand the naming rules for your business structure.

The Truic Flame Logo
If you'd like to explore business name ideas for your new venture right away, check out our Business Name Generator tool.

Brainstorm Business Names
You should start by brainstorming at least 4-5 potential names. The goal is to come up with at least a few catchy and creative names. Then, we will help you make sure the names you chose are available.

A good brainstorming session lasts for about 15-45 minutes and it’s important that you are comfortable in all ways— think snacks and water, a comfortable chair, your favorite pen.

Use a timer and then stop when it goes off. If you need more time, take a 15 minute break and start your timer again. The more you brainstorm, the better.

Creative Brainstorming Techniques:

Visualization. It might help to close your eyes and picture yourself as a consumer in the type of business you want to start. What are the words that you would use to describe the product, the services, and the atmosphere? Think of adjectives you would use to convey that kind of environment.
Word-association. Start by writing a couple of random words. Next, write down words that tie your two random words to your business's mission, service, or product. This exercise is meant to tease-out buried ideas.

Free Writing. Keep your pen on the paper until your timer goes off. Don’t limit your ideas, don’t analyze whether they are good or bad. Just keep writing.

Get personal. Draw upon familar experiences relating to meaningful memories and ways in which you could make others feel the same through language. Also, you can either use your own name, last name, the name of a mentor, or that of someone else who is significant to you.
Rhymes. One popular form of word play to help you find a business name idea is rhyming. Think of similar sounding words that relate to your business and put them together. For instance, if you're starting a laundromat business, you can name it "Spinnin' Linen." 
Acronyms. A simple business naming method can be creating a standard business name and using an acronym. One example is TRUiC — The Really Useful Information Company — where it describes the purpose of the company.
Synonyms. The most creative names are derived from synonyms that can describe your business by using more unique, similar words. One simple way to do this is by performing a Google search on words that describe or relate to your business. For example, if you're starting a business as a make-up artist, you may think of words that relate to beauty; some beauty synonyms include pretty, stunning, and gorgeous.
Mind Map. Start with a circle containing the words “my business name.” Draw a line off of the main circle with each new idea. A web of ideas will form during your brainstorming session.


Naming Tip

If you don’t love the name you choose the first time, most states allow you to set up a DBA later. A DBA allows you to operate your business under a different name without doing a full legal name change.


12 Questions To Ask When Choosing A Brand Name
Now that you’ve come up with name choices, it’s time to think about some important tips for naming a business.

12 Important Questions to Ask Yourself:

Is my name simple?
How does the name sound when I say it out loud?
Is the name easy to pronounce and spell and does the acronym look ok?
Is my business name shorter rather than longer?
Did I include a geographic location in my name? Usually, you shouldn't.
What do other people think of the name?
How does the name compare to other business names in the industry?
Does the name convey my mission as a business?
Did I avoid trends?
Does my name contain obscure words?
Is my name too narrow or too literal?
Is my name memorable?
The Truic Flame Logo
Recommended: Check out these 12 Tips for Naming Your Small Business.

Choose Your Branding Strategy
The next big decision you will need to make is whether your legal business name will be your brand name or if your brand will be separate from your legal name.

Most business owners prefer to use the business’s legal name as their brand name.

Legal Name: Your business's legal name is the name that is listed on your formation documents.

Brand Name: Your business's brand name is the name that you use to market your company. It is the name that clients see and use.

Informal businesses, like sole proprietors and general partnerships, are almost always required to use their surname(s) as their legal name.

Recommended: Check out some of our most popular Online Business Ideas and Low-Cost Business Ideas if you’re still looking for a business idea to put a name to.

There Are Three Main Branding Strategies:


1. The business's legal name is also the brand name. If you are forming an LLC or corporation, you will register your legal name when you file your formation documents.




2. The business has a legal name that is different than its brand name. If you choose to have a different brand name, you will need to file a DBA (if allowed in your state). To learn more, visit our easy step-by-step DBA guide on Startupsavant.com.
 



3. The business has a legal name and multiple brand names. If you choose to have multiple brand names, you will need to file for a DBA (if allowed in your state). You can learn more about branding with a DBA on our What is a DBA page.




DBA

When a business uses a name besides their legal name, they create a DBA (doing business as). A DBA is sometimes called an assumed name, fictitious name, or trade name.


Consider Using a DBA to Brand or Rebrand Your Business
Most states allow you to set up a DBA (doing business as). A DBA allows you to use a name other than your business’s legal name.

If you don’t love the name you pick the first time or if things change that make your name obsolete, you can usually create a DBA name and legally operate under a new name.

DBA For Your Business Structure

Owners of formal business types like LLCs and Corporations sometimes choose to create multiple brands or rebrand their businesses with a DBA. Most sole proprietors and general partnerships need to use a DBA to create a brand other than their surnames. You can learn more about filing a DBA in your state on our How To File a DBA guide.

After you get your business name, your next step is getting a unique logo. Get your unique logo using our Free Logo Generator.


Have a question? Leave a Comment!
Ask us a question, tell us how we're doing, or share your experiences. Join the conversation in our Comment Section.

Step 2: Follow The Naming Rules For Your Business Structure
Choosing a business structure for your new venture is an important step because different business structures have different naming rules.

Business structures can be formal or informal and are the way your business is set up, operated, and taxed. We cover the following business structure naming rules: 

Common formal business structures
Limited Liability Companies
C Corporations
Common informal business structures
Sole Proprietorships
Partnerships
Limited Liability Company (LLC)
An LLC is the simplest way of structuring your business to protect your personal assets in case your business is sued.

For your state's LLC naming rules, select your state from the drop-down above.

Common LLC Naming Rules:
Your name must include the phrase “limited liability company,” or one of its abbreviations (LLC or L.L.C.).
Your name cannot include words that could confuse your LLC with a government agency (FBI, Treasury, State Department, etc.).
Restricted words (e.g. Bank, Attorney, University) may require additional paperwork and a licensed individual, such as a doctor or lawyer, to be part of your LLC.
The Truic Flame Logo
Recommended: Learn How to Form an LLC in your state using our free guide.

C Corporation
A C Corporation (C Corp) is a separate legal entity from its owners with a basic operational structure consisting of shareholders, officers, directors, and employees. A C corp business structure will protect your personal assets.

For your state's corporation naming rules, select your state from the drop-down above.

Common Corporation Naming Rules:
Your name must contain the word “corporation,” “company,” “incorporated,” “limited” or an abbreviation of one of these terms.
Your name must be distinguishable from any existing business in your state.
Your name cannot include words that could confuse your corporation with a government agency (FBI, Treasury, State Department, etc.).
The Truic Flame Logo
Recommended: Learn How to Form a Corporation in your state by following the guides on Startup Savant.

Sole Proprietorship
A sole proprietorship is the simplest business type in the United States. A sole proprietorship is an informal business structure and does not provide personal asset protection.

Sole Proprietorship Naming Rules:
This business structure must operate under the surname of the owner. To use a different name for a sole proprietorship, the owner must file for a DBA (doing business as), also known as an assumed name, fictitious name, or trade name.

General Partnership
General partnerships are similar to sole proprietorships. The difference is that a partnership consists of 2 or more people. A general partnership is an informal business structure and does not provide personal asset protection.

General Partnership Naming Rules:
General partnerships must include the surnames of the partners. Similar to sole proprietorships, for the partnership owners must file a DBA (doing business as) to use a different name.

The Truic Flame Logo
Recommended: Read our What is a DBA article to learn more about what a DBA is, isn’t, and what it means to get one for your business.

S Corporation
An S Corporation (S Corp) is a tax structure, not a business structure. You can call your business an “S corp” but really it’s either a corporation or an LLC.

If your business is taxed as an S Corp, you should follow your state’s naming requirements for either a corporation or an LLC, depending on your business structure.

Step 3: Check if Your Business Name is Available
The final step for naming your business is making sure it's unique on the state and federal levels and that it's available as a domain name.

Visit our state-specific Business Name Search guides for instructions on how to find out if your business name is unique.

Find a Domain Now
   Search for your perfect domain...
 
Powered by GoDaddy.com
Federal Trademark Search
Next, a quick search on the U.S. Trademark Electronic Search System will tell you whether someone else has already trademarked your name. Once you know the name is available, you can choose to apply for a trademark for your business but the cost is sometimes too high for a startup or fledgling business.

Regardless of whether you will be registering, it’s good to know if your name is already taken.

To learn more about trademarks and the steps you will need to get one, read our How to Trademark Your Business article.